README.md, before:

<!--



## 🚀 Features

- **Tiling Window Management**: Organizes your windows into a tiling pattern, eliminating any wasted space and allowing for easy navigation.
- **Keyboard Shortcuts 🎹**: QuirkWM supports intuitive keyboard shortcuts to create, close, and navigate between windows.
- **Lightweight Design 🪶**: As a minimalistic window manager, QuirkWM is fast and efficient, perfect for those who want a responsive system without unnecessary extras.
- **Gap Control 🖼️**: Adjust the gaps between windows for a more visually appealing setup.
- **Focus Control 🔍**: Easily navigate between the windows using keyboard shortcuts to focus on different parts of your work.

## 📦 Installation
### Dependencies
Make sure you have the X11 development libraries installed on your system.
```bash
sudo apt-get install libx11-dev # Debian
sudo pacman -S libx11 # Arch Linux
... 
```
On other systems, use the corresponding package manager and package name.

### Building from Source
1. **Clone the QuirkWM repository**:
```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/letrad/QuirkWM.git
```
 *QuirkWM has dependancies so you'll need to use `--recursive` to grab all those goodies along with it.*

2. **Change into the QuirkWM directory**:
```
cd QuirkWM
```
3. **Create a build directory and navigate into it**:
```bash
mkdir build
cd build
```
4. **Configure & Compile**:
 ```bash
 cmake ..
 make
```
5. **Add QuirkWM to .xinitrc or use startx**:
```bash
startx ./QuirkWM
```
## 🎮 Usage
### Key Bindings

- **Super + T**: Open a new terminal window (kitty).
- **Super + Q**: Quit the window manager.
- **Super + Left Arrow**: Focus the previous window.
- **Super + Right Arrow**: Focus the next window.

## 🤝 Contributing
Contributions to QuirkWM are welcome! Please read the contributing guidelines and submit pull requests or open an issue.

## 📜 License
QuirkWM is open source and available under the Mozilla Public License 2.0. See the LICENSE file for details.

-->
<h1 align="center">QuirkWM</h1>  

> A simple and easy to use Tiling Window Manager (WM).

QuirkWM aims to provide a lightweight and efficient window management experience for users who prefer a keyboard-centric environment. With its focus on simplicity and modularity, QuirkWM targets power users, developers, and those looking to streamline their workflow by minimizing mouse usage, while allowing a certain level of customization through a configuration file. Its design principles emphasize performance, ease of use, and the ability to extend functionality through integration with other command-line tools and applications.

*QuirkWM lacks thorough testing, issues may be imminent, for now, install at your own risk* 

<!-- ![](header.png) -->
## 📦 Installation
1. Clone the repository & dependencies:
   ```shell
   git clone --recursive https://github.com/letrad/QuirkWM.git
   ```
2. Enter the directory:
   ```shell
   cd QuirkWM
   ```
3. Proceed to make:
   ```shell
   make all
   ```

### Running QuirkWM
You may now run QuirkWM from your TTY:
```shell
startx ./quirkwm
```
However, since QuirkWM is still in it's development, its recommended to run it in an isolated window with Xephyr:
```shell
Xephyr :9 -screen 1280x720 &
DISPLAY=:9 ./quirkwm
```

## 🧰 Configuration
Currently, QuirkWM can be configured through a basic config file. Any basic understanding of TOML will be sufficient.

You can learn more about configuring QuirkWM on the [Wiki]. Though, here is a quick example config:
```toml
[wm]
gap = 10

[pref]
term = "st"
```
## 📜 Meta

 – [@letradical](https://letrad.me)
 
Distributed under the Mozilla Public License 2.0 license. See ``LICENSE`` for more information.

[https://github.com/letrad/QuirkWM](https://github.com/letrad/QuirkWM)

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork it (<https://github.com/letrad/QuirkWM/fork>)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/fooBar`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some fooBar'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/fooBar`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

[wiki]: https://github.com/letrad/QuirkWM/wiki

Commit message:

Cleanup + Modkey
added customizable modkey support + cleanup is neater now I suppose.

README.md, after:

<!--



## 🚀 Features

- **Tiling Window Management**: Organizes your windows into a tiling pattern, eliminating any wasted space and allowing for easy navigation.
- **Keyboard Shortcuts 🎹**: QuirkWM supports intuitive keyboard shortcuts to create, close, and navigate between windows.
- **Lightweight Design 🪶**: As a minimalistic window manager, QuirkWM is fast and efficient, perfect for those who want a responsive system without unnecessary extras.
- **Gap Control 🖼️**: Adjust the gaps between windows for a more visually appealing setup.
- **Focus Control 🔍**: Easily navigate between the windows using keyboard shortcuts to focus on different parts of your work.

## 📦 Installation
### Dependencies
Make sure you have the X11 development libraries installed on your system.
```bash
sudo apt-get install libx11-dev # Debian
sudo pacman -S libx11 # Arch Linux
... 
```
On other systems, use the corresponding package manager and package name.

### Building from Source
1. **Clone the QuirkWM repository**:
```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/letrad/QuirkWM.git
```
 *QuirkWM has dependancies so you'll need to use `--recursive` to grab all those goodies along with it.*

2. **Change into the QuirkWM directory**:
```
cd QuirkWM
```
3. **Create a build directory and navigate into it**:
```bash
mkdir build
cd build
```
4. **Configure & Compile**:
 ```bash
 cmake ..
 make
```
5. **Add QuirkWM to .xinitrc or use startx**:
```bash
startx ./QuirkWM
```
## 🎮 Usage
### Key Bindings

- **Super + T**: Open a new terminal window (kitty).
- **Super + Q**: Quit the window manager.
- **Super + Left Arrow**: Focus the previous window.
- **Super + Right Arrow**: Focus the next window.

## 🤝 Contributing
Contributions to QuirkWM are welcome! Please read the contributing guidelines and submit pull requests or open an issue.

## 📜 License
QuirkWM is open source and available under the Mozilla Public License 2.0. See the LICENSE file for details.

-->
<h1 align="center">QuirkWM</h1>  

> A simple and easy to use Tiling Window Manager (WM).

QuirkWM aims to provide a lightweight and efficient window management experience for users who prefer a keyboard-centric environment. With its focus on simplicity and modularity, QuirkWM targets power users, developers, and those looking to streamline their workflow by minimizing mouse usage, while allowing a certain level of customization through a configuration file. Its design principles emphasize performance, ease of use, and the ability to extend functionality through integration with other command-line tools and applications.

*QuirkWM lacks thorough testing, issues may be imminent, for now, install at your own risk* 

<!-- ![](header.png) -->
## 📦 Installation
1. Clone the repository & dependencies:
   ```shell
   git clone --recursive https://github.com/letrad/QuirkWM.git
   ```
2. Enter the directory:
   ```shell
   cd QuirkWM
   ```
3. Proceed to make:
   ```shell
   make all
   ```

### Running QuirkWM
You may now run QuirkWM from your TTY:
```shell
startx ./quirkwm
```
However, since QuirkWM is still in it's development, its recommended to run it in an isolated window with Xephyr:
```shell
Xephyr :9 -screen 1280x720 &
DISPLAY=:9 ./quirkwm
```

## 🧰 Configuration
Currently, QuirkWM can be configured through a basic config file. Any basic understanding of TOML will be sufficient.

You can learn more about configuring QuirkWM on the [Wiki]. Though, here is a quick example config that tries to combine all elements:
```toml
[wm]
gap = 10

[pref]
term = "st" # A locally installed program
modkey = "Super" # Can be "Alt", "Ctrl", "Super", "Shift"

```
## 📜 Meta

 – [@letradical](https://letrad.me)
 
Distributed under the Mozilla Public License 2.0 license. See ``LICENSE`` for more information.

[https://github.com/letrad/QuirkWM](https://github.com/letrad/QuirkWM)

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork it (<https://github.com/letrad/QuirkWM/fork>)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/fooBar`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some fooBar'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/fooBar`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

[wiki]: https://github.com/letrad/QuirkWM/wiki
